#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
customHeadersFooters
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Testing 123
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Interface Tracking Model
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Wildfires are multiscale systems with complex dynamics and feedback mechanisms,
 making it difficult to capture all of their characteristics.
 Physics based models, such as HIGRAD/FIRETEC [4] (H/F), model the fluid
 dynamics, the fire-atmosphere interaction, and the chemical processes (pyrolysi
s) of fires.
 These models can simulate a wide range of conditions but have large computation
al requirements, making them unviable as an operational model.
 This project aims to cast the modeling of fire as an interface tracking
 problem where a fireline will be represented as either a single closed
 curve (entire interior burning) ,
\begin_inset Formula $\Gamma_{0}$
\end_inset

, or as an outer fireline with one or multiple inner firelines (regions
 of exhausted or unburnt fuel), 
\begin_inset Formula $\Gamma_{i}$
\end_inset

 for 
\begin_inset Formula $i\geq1$
\end_inset

.
 The firelines, 
\begin_inset Formula $\Gamma_{i},$
\end_inset

 represent the isotherm encapsulating the heavy burning regime.
 This is a non-local and semi-empirical model where normal velocities, 
\begin_inset Formula $\vec{v_{n}},$
\end_inset

 are derived from a combination of heat flux from combustion, convective
 sinks, and fire-atmosphere interactions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Heat Flux
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The heat flux is calculated as an integral over the area of the enclosed
 burning region.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Fire-Atmosphere Interactions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The fire-atmosphere interactions will be determined by coupling the Weather
 Research and Forecasting (WRF) model [5] with the changes in air pressure
 resulting from heat flux.
 All quantities calculated along the interface are done in Fourier space,
 resulting in minimal computational cost and high-order accuracy.
 Parameters for the model will be determined through Bayesian Inference
 with the Delayed Rejection Adaptive Metropolis (DRAM) algorithm [1] using
 data collected from experiments carried out at Tall Timbers Research Station
 (TT) and model runs from H/F.
 Other factors that need further consideration are merging of fronts and
 fuel bed properties.
 
\series bold
\size small
The goal is to create an operational wildland fire model that captures fireline
 behaviors that have been observed in other models and experiments at a
 much smaller computational cost.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
\bar under
Intellectual Merit
\bar default
:
\series default
 A numerical issue with modeling a fireline as a moving interface is the
 distortion of the mesh as the interface moves.
 This leads to a varying spatial resolution and can cause tangling and instabili
ties.
 By introducing a tangential velocity component [2] it is guaranteed that
 points remain equispaced in arclength without affecting the shape of the
 interface (Figure 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "lTheta"

\end_inset

).
 With this formulation, a well-behaved mesh is attained and a large number
 of stable timesteps can be taken.
 This framework makes this model a novel approach to modeling wildfires.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Model Fitting
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
SARndbox
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusion
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
